Q.1 - A database is an organized collection of data, so that it can be easily accessed and managed.

The main purpose of the database is to operate a large amount of information by storing, retrieving, and managing data.
There are many dynamic websites on the World Wide Web nowadays which are handled through databases.
There are many databases available like MySQL, Sybase, Oracle, MongoDB, Informix, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, etc.


Q2 A file system is a process of managing how and where data on a storage disk, which is also referred to as file management
 or FS. It is a logical disk component that compresses files separated into groups, which is known as directories. 
 It is abstract to a human user and related to a computer; hence, it manages a disk's internal operations. Files and 
 additional directories can be in the directories. 
  challanges of file based storage system are :
  1) security concern
  2) Redundancy
  3) Dependence on Data

Q3 Database Management System is a software or technology used to manage data from a database. Some popular databases
 are MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, etc. DBMS provides many operations e.g. creating a database, Storing in the database,
  updating an existing database, delete from the database. DBMS is a system that enables you to store, modify and
   retrieve data in an organized way. It also provides security to the database.  

   Better Data Transferring: Database management creates a place where users have an advantage of more and better-managed data.
    Thus making it possible for end-users to have a quick look and to respond fast to any changes made in their environment.

  Better Data Security: The more accessible and usable the database, the more it is prone to security issues. As the number
 of users increases, the data transferring or data sharing rate also increases thus increasing the risk of data security.
  It is widely used in the corporate world where companies invest large amounts of money, time, and effort to ensure data 
  is secure and used properly. A Database Management System (DBMS) provides a better platform for data privacy and security
   policies thus, helping companies to improve Data Security.

  Better data integration: Due to the Database Management System we have access to well-managed and synchronized forms
 of data thus it makes data handling very easy and gives an integrated view of how a particular organization is working
  and also helps to keep track of how one segment of the company affects another segment.

Q4 challanges
Data abstraction: The major purpose of a database system is to provide users with an abstract view of the data.
 Since many complex algorithms are used by the developers to increase the efficiency of databases that are being 
 hidden by the users through various data abstraction levels to allow users to easily interact with the system.

Reduction in data Redundancy: When working with a structured database, DBMS provides the feature to prevent the
 input of duplicate items in the database. for e.g. – If there are two same students in different rows, then one
  of the duplicate data will be deleted.

Application development: A DBMS provides a foundation for developing applications that require access to large
 amounts of data, reducing development time and costs.

Data sharing: A DBMS provides a platform for sharing data across multiple applications and users, which can
 increase productivity and collaboration.

Data organization: A DBMS provides a systematic approach to organizing data in a structured way, which makes
 it easier to retrieve and manage data efficiently.

The atomicity of data can be maintained: That means, if some operation is 
performed on one particular table of the database, then the change must be reflected  for the entire database. 
 The DBMS allows concurrent access to multiple users by using the synchronization technique.

Data consistency and accuracy: DBMS ensures that data is consistent and accurate by enforcing data integrity 
constraints and preventing data duplication. This helps to eliminate data discrepancies and errors that can occur
 when data is stored and managed manually.

Improved data security: DBMS provides a high level of data security by offering user authentication and
 authorization, data encryption, and access control mechanisms.  

Q.5 classification of DBMS

Relational DBMS
A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a type of database management system (DBMS) that stores data in the form 
of related tables. The data is organized into rows, columns, and tables, and it is indexed to make it easier to find relevant
 information. 

Object-oriented DBMS
Object-oriented DBMS (OODBMS) is a type of database management system that is built around the concept of objects.
An object-oriented database stores data in the form of objects, which are pieces of information that contain data as
well as associated methods or procedures. 

Hierarchical DBMS
A hierarchical database management system (HDBMS) is a type of database management system (DBMS) based on the
hierarchical model, which is a data model that organizes data elements in a tree-like structure.

Network database – Mainly used on a large digital computers. If there are more connections, then this database
 is efficient. They are similar to hierarchical database, they look like a cobweb or interconnected network of records
 Examples are CA-IDMS(COMPUTER associates), IMAGE(HP).


Q6 Data model
A data model is a representation of structured data, usually in the form of a diagram or computer language.
 It is used to represent and organize data, as well as to facilitate communication between different stakeholders.

types of data modelling
Conceptual Data Model: This Data Model defines WHAT the system contains. This model is typically created by Business
 stakeholders and Data Architects. The purpose is to organize, scope and define business concepts and rules.

Logical Data Model: Defines HOW the system should be implemented regardless of the DBMS. This model is typically 
created by Data Architects and Business Analysts. The purpose is to developed technical map of rules and data structures.

Physical Data Model: This Data Model describes HOW the system will be implemented using a specific DBMS system.
 This model is typically created by DBA and developers. The purpose is actual implementation of the database.

Q7 Three schema architecture

 1) Internal schema
 The internal level has an internal schema which describes the physical storage structure of the database.
The internal schema is also known as a physical schema.
It uses the physical data model. It is used to define that how the data will be stored in a block.

2) Conceptual schema
The conceptual schema describes the design of a database at the conceptual level. Conceptual level is also known as 
logical level.
The conceptual schema describes the structure of the whole database.
The conceptual level describes what data are to be stored in the database and also describes what relationship exists
 among those data.

3) External schema
At the external level, a database contains several schemas that sometimes called as subschema. The subschema is used
 to describe the different view of the database.
An external schema is also known as view schema.
Each view schema describes the database part that a particular user group is interested and hides the remaining database
 from that user group.

Advantages
1) data independance
2) logical data independance
3) physical data independance 
